They would suggest that so-and-so needed to be on
the bowling team or so-and-so needed to be on the
music committee at the MSC or on SCONA or you need to
run for freshman class treasurer or vice
president. And then they would tell you, now
here's the way you do it. or if it was an intramural
we would get out and work out they'd work with the
team on plays and how to succeed at athletics or at
student recreational activities on campus or in
the MSC so I was encouraged to go to every dorm and go
in every freshman's room and whip out and spend a
few minutes and remember their name, what their
major was, and where they were from, their
hometown. Now this was in terms of- This is in the
fall because the freshman officers ran then in the
spring. So during that first semester, of course,
I'd been there in summer school, so some of the
newness that everybody else was faced with, at
least I was a little bit oriented to the
environment, not to the core, but where things
were and how to expedite certain activities. But
that's what they told me to do, and I did. And so I got
involved through that activity and then the
entomology club over in the department and the
church and a number of things that were not
directly A&M related. Did you put up signs? No. And
did... Don't ever remember any during... 55
through 59 by advertising. You went around and
introduced yourself. People knew everybody. And
so you didn't have a rally, you didn't have a...
Nope. We just went around just like the old
politicians I guess used to and introduced
yourself and visited with people and told them
what you were concerned about and what you were
going to do. And they made up their mind as to who
they liked the best. Do you remember what your
concerns were that freshman year? What you might
have told them you were concerned about? No, I
don't. And what was the vote? Do you remember how
close it was? It was fairly close. As I remember,
Joe Bueser was one of my opponents. And I believe
Fish Fudge was the other one. But it was...
Alright, and then when you were elected, did that
change your status in your outfit? No. You still
had to... I still had to hit a brace. Still had to
wipe the buzzes off. Still had to do push-ups.
Still had to shine... Senior shoes and junior
shoes. Do you remember? I didn't have a problem
when we had activities, you know, when we had a
meeting to plan the freshman ball or to leave. I
just simply had to ask the first sergeant for a
pass. Who did you work with as a freshman
president? Primarily Dean Penberthy and Mr.
Hardesty, Pete Hardesty. Forgot Hardesty, yeah.
And what were the big events? Freshman ball.
Freshman ball. The dance and everything.
Describe it. Well, we had a band, and we had girls
mostly from TSCW, and that's made up to date, and it
was held over in Savisa. Moved all the tables and
chairs back, and the band played, and we danced. Do
you remember which band it was? sure don't and this
was i can look in here this was this is in spring
spring probably april it was the weekend before
combat ball i can remember that because we were
worried about whether or not it would have any
impact on the attendance now uh only fish and their
dates came right and then we had faculty advisors
you did you have a special date you know i can't even
remember having a date okay uh and what where did
the girls uh that they came how did the how did the
boys get a get connection with the tessies well uh
most of them had been one or two of them knew a girl
that was going to TSCW and then she would get dates
for everybody else in the outfit and they would
come down a few of them had cars but most of them came
on the bus and they would stay with faculty members
here in the community I've been trying to remember
if we had any motels I remember the Aggieland Inn
but I don't remember whether there were places
other than homes for people to stay in. And most of
them stayed in homes. And how did everybody behave
at the dance? It was fairly formal. We were
gentlemen.
You were a little bit intimidated, I can recall
that, even as a senior.
It's probably about like the claims of drinking at
Bonfire. I don't remember that. It wasn't
evidenced. Probably it did occur in some
instances. Could have been made a big story if it
had been written about in today's media.
The young ladies were dressed in formal. Yes, they
were formally dressed.
The music was slow. And you all didn't worry about
somebody being intoxicated? Never. I don't ever
remember anybody even smelling like liquor at
dances here on campus. And there were a lot of blind
dates. uh... probably ninety nine percent did now
i've heard of beast buckets and moose pots does
that ring a bell the guys would have a pot where you
put money in and the afters all over who got the
worst date got the money okay yeah pig pots pig pots
pig pots and i've heard that the girls also had to
say that the boys didn't know that probably didn't
i wasn't aware of that I've heard from two or three
Tessies that they had the same. But you always put
those pots together before the girls got here. And
after you lost two or three pots, you quit betting
on that. The fun all was out of it. What other big
events were there for the freshman president to
worry about? That was it. That and getting the
organization for the Aggieland. helping with the
Aggieland staff and getting freshman pictures,
making sure that everybody was in, getting enough
freshman activities, because the freshmen
participated like in intramurals separately
from upperclassmen. They had their own
championships in swimming and wrestling and flag
football, so the freshmen competed intramurally
with other outfits freshmen. So, uh, That was more
a part of the intramural officer in each unit to get
those, that participation. We worked with the
Aggieland staff to get pictures of freshman
activities athletically, units marching in, the
freshman drill team,
simply trying to make that class a part of A&M. Turn
back and describe Bonfire your freshman year.
What did y'all do and where did you? We were red box.
We stacked. Triple A had the responsibility of
stacking. Even as a freshman? Yeah. And about how
long did y'all work on Bonfire? From the SMU game,
so about a month, six weeks. And it always rained.
And, of course, it was always done by brute force.
And the stack area in those days was behind Duncan?
Yes. Our first bonfire was in front of the MSC. And
then the rest of them were behind Duncan. Why did
they move it to Duncan? I can't tell you. I don't
even remember why they moved it over there. I
always thought it was because of the fire hazard of
embers falling on campus building but you move it
over there and it falls on the faculty Dr. Little
lived about a block from the stack when they moved
it to Duncan and he always spent that time when they
lit it with a hose on top of his house spent all night
watering down the house so that it wouldn't catch a
fire What did a fish red pot do?
We were on the ground with forked sticks. They're
called fuck sticks. And we physically, by putting
those sticks at an angle, physically put the logs
up and wired them to the stack. Didn't have any type
of power equipment. I never went to the cut area
because our responsibility was to stack. And we
physically stacked it. We took those logs and laid
them up and our bonfire was 79
or 80 foot. Back then, as you probably already
know, the goal was to make it at least a foot taller
than the year before. So you knew how high you had to
build it. Do you remember how many stacks it was?
There was one. You just took logs and put them up so
that they were woven together and when you had hold
you filled in with logs and there's no way that it
could fall then because it wasn't
separate units. You'd put a tall log up and wire it
up the top, and then you'd fill in. Now, how did
y'all get the logs way up there? With a pulley.
Hooked to the... To the center pole. To the center
pole. And they were just simply pullied up. And
about how many hours a night, a week, did you work?
Usually about eight. eight hours on the stack a
night yeah how many nights uh about every other
night okay and you're still stacking was done 24
hours a day yeah because you had to in order to get it
finished
uh and was there any drinking around the stack area
then uh do you remember i don't remember any
drinking do you remember any injuries of anybody
anything no the cut area would frequently have
people injured with axes and some of them serious
but I don't remember any injuries on the stock area
either a sprained hand or twisted an ankle or had a
log that they didn't let go of quick enough and
pulled a shoulder out of socket but uh now you said
serious in the cut area serious meaning what uh cut
a leg halfway off or serious uh a flesh wound with an
axe but they were mostly axe related
and so you did this all four years yes and what did it
change in your four years at all not really only the
role that you played because uh the all three AAA
units, that was their responsibility. I don't
know how it became their responsibility. I don't
know the history on it. All I knew is that we were
responsible for stacking. Freshmen were on the
ground. Sophomores ran the ground crew. Juniors
and seniors were up on the stack. All right. And
they were responsible for the whole operation,
stacking operation. Was there a person, an
individual, who was the chief of all chiefs for
Bonfire? Yeah. Well, no, not for Bonfire, but for
stacking there was. A junior was selected as
responsible, and I'm sure there was a senior above
him, but you saw the junior was out there
essentially 24 hours a day. Did he have a nickname?
What was he? I never heard it. I wasn't it, so I don't
know. So there was not a commander-in-chief
individual for Bonfire? No. Not that I ever was
aware of. Did civilian students work on Bonfire?
What are civilians?
No. Well, I don't know because everyone, most
people were in fatigues, but there were some
people out there in jeans, particularly juniors
and seniors. Most people were in units. You knew
everybody, and they were from mostly AAA and field
artillery. were on the stack, but at the tail end
when they had finished cutting, then a lot of
people showed up to help finish the stack. And you
say it did not change during your four years. Not
significantly, it just got bigger each year. And
you all did wire everything together with cable?
No. It was kind of like a barbed wire with no barbed
on it. It was about that thick of wire. Okay, okay.
And was there a myth about how long after the
bonfire was lit? It had to stay standing until the
kickoff or we'd lose the game. And most times it did
stay up. And most times under Bear Bryant we won the
game. Yeah. But the myth was blown, though, in the
60s and 70s. Yes.
Let's see. Back to student government. Okay, you
were president of the freshman class. Did you
follow that up, sophomore, junior? Student
senate, yeah. Student senate. I was ag
representative as a sophomore and I was vice chair
of student senate as a junior and was student
senate president. And how did one become the vice
chair and the president? How did? Those were
selected by the student senate. You ran
campus-wide elections. for the representative
from the very school, and then for president of the
student senate. It was a campus-wide election.
Okay. And do you remember who your opponent was, or
opponents? Joe Busser. Joe Busser, again. And how
close was the final election? It was close. It was
very competitive. Were you and Joe friends? Yes.
Competitors and friends. What were the big issues
before the student senate your senior year? We
started the blood drive, the Aggie blood drive
that year. Don Rommel chaired Aggie. Community
Relations Committee and started the first Aggie
Blood Drive. Oh, describe that. Well, we got with
Wadley. Whose idea was it? It was either Don's or
one of the committee members, but they took that on
as their project for the year. and they organized
it and worked with Dean Penberthy on getting terms
on
the stipulations on how it would be handled and who
would have access to the blood, etc. But Don,
you'll have to ask him. Who? I'm not sure. Don
Rummel. Is he still? He just retired as
entomologist with the experiment station at
Lubbock. Where does he live? Lubbock. He retired
on April 28th. In fact, I was up just last week, last
Friday night at his retirement party at the
Lubbock National Bank. And as you all understood
it, the purpose of this blood drive was to raise
blood for whom? Aggies. What kind of Aggies?
Students and former students.
And I can't remember the detail, but there had been
some
situations where people needed blood and were
unable to get it after either accidents or
surgery. And how well did it go that first year?
Everybody went. Everybody gave. Do
you remember where? They were here a week. And
we're down in the basement next, had two or three
rooms down there where the piano usually was. Do
you remember any poignant examples of where that
blood was used in your experience? No, not really.
I know two or three times I've asked, is it still
operational the same way? And we've put it in the
Class of 59 newsletter. All right, typist, you
don't need to add this because this is personal,
but I just want to share it. This is back in the 70s,
and one of my Garland elementary school buddies.
Now, I move away from Garland when I'm 10 years old.
He's an Aggie. His name is Jack Leonard. He was a
dentist. He would have been class of 52. And he and I
were close buddies growing up. His dad was a
dentist. And I thought they were rich because they
had two cars in the family. And he called me and he
said, I really need your help. He said, you
remember Gerald Cooper? And I said, of course.
Gerald's mother and dad And my mother and dad went
to the movies together when the two young wives
were pregnant. Gerald's born a month ahead of me,
but with awful hemophilia. All his life. And he was
then, what would have, he'd been 50, I guess, 40,
been 40. And he said that he's in the hospital and
they're having to give him two or three pints of
blood a day. And we have run out of all the friends
and the relatives and everything. Is it possible?
He said, I remember the Aggie, is it possible A&M
could? And I said, well, Gerald went to SMU, didn't
he? He said, yeah, but I was just wondering if
maybe. I said, well, let me check. I feel a cold
chill as I think about it. So I called the student
body president and told him the circumstances.
And this is not for an Aggie, but is it possible they
might share some? He called me back in an hour, and
he said, would 500 pints be enough? Well, you know,
I have often wondered, and I've never followed up
on it. I haven't used it. I don't know of anyone that
has used it. But when I have checked with Randy and
them about the procedures, they said it's the
same. I think so. It's available to any Aggie that
needs it. So that started while? Start of 1959. The
first Aggie blood test. collection by Wadley was
in the spring of 59. Were you, as the President of
the Student Senate, were you photographed giving
your blood? No, I don't remember, but Rubble was.
That committee that put it together were
highlighted. What were some other big issues that
you remember? Well, The co-ed issue was being
talked about a little bit. Really? Summarize
that. Well, it was just rumors. And,
of course, all the students, most of the students,
the ones that talked were absolutely opposed to
women here at A&M. What about those who didn't
talk? who knows did you have any opinion at that
point I I yes I felt like that it wouldn't be a good
thing to introduce women and to make A&M
non-military I felt like that there was something
very unique and different about this place and
felt like that that would ruin it Wasn't very vocal
about that, but that was honestly my opinion. Did
reporters ever bug you about it, about your
opinion? No. That was a little bit before it got
actively being discussed. Now, Mr. Rutter came
here during your- He was vice president, vice
chair. Did you have any meetings with him, any
conversations with him during that year you were
president? Some contact, but limited. Most of my
work was with Dean Penberthy. Describe working
with him. He was a gentleman. Dean Penney was good
counsel. He was a very slow and deliberate in his
discussing issues and topic with people
he gave good support for the student government
activities
probably Wayne Stark was the one that was
impressive from Stanford of being so formal and
hard-driving, totally different
personalities. Make believe I had never seen or
met Wayne Stark. Tell me about him. Very formal,
always dressed immaculately,
very strictly business. I found him a little bit
out of place at this place.
A&M had a character about it that was different
from the few formal places I had been in. And Wayne
was one that you would have expected to be in a very
formal place. Okay. He was very well spoken. It
didn't take him long to say what he needed to say,
and then he was gone. When you went in, you knew you
needed to have everything organized that you
probably wouldn't have over three or four
minutes.
Very effective.
Extremely well organized. And very valuable once
the students graduated. He guided a lot of people
in making good decisions. Both while they were
here, but also when they graduated. He helped a lot
of people make some very sound, lifelong
decisions. Did he ever give you any advice? Not
really. You didn't seek him? I didn't ask him for
that kind of advice. We got good, sound advice
about who to approach to speak at Sconum. and why,
and how to approach them, whether you called or
wrote and what you said and how you said it. Those
are the kinds of guidance that he provided. Do you
remember SCONA that year? What was the topic and
who were the speakers? No, I never was chair of
SCONA, but I worked on committees and organizing
and putting it on. Now, Stark occasionally gave a
youngster a real serious lecture if he thought
they were goofing off too much. Did you ever get one
of those lectures? No, I didn't. In fact, I was not
aware that that happened. Oh, called Green Couch
Treatment. He had this old green vinyl-covered
couch. He'd get you in there, close the door, and
say, in effect, he'd say, you ought to be ashamed.
You can do better, and you know it, and I know it. And
by the time you got through, you felt about that
high, and he'd say, now get out of here. There were
lots of people down here that could do that very
well, all the way from sophomores to many of the
faculty. And I don't know if it was age or what,
but... There was a certain amount of fear and
respect for faculty on this campus. I know I was in
awe of a lot of faculty members. Such as? Well, Mr.
Reinhart, who taught taxonomy over in
entomology, as a professor, he had a high
expectation. Don't ever try to play games in his
class or do things that might be fun. Dr. James, who
was head of the department, was very stiff and
formal, and you just didn't want to have to do too
much business with him when you were a student. As a
student body president, did you get to make any
special trips? Oh, yeah. Such as? Well, we went to
the Cotton Bowl and at the SMU game got to tie Don
Cloud's kiss of the Aggie sweetheart.
We made a number of multi-university
governing conferences.
interacted with the other university's
student government groups. Which ones impressed
you most? Probably TU, which I hate to admit, but
most of the Southwest Conference student
leadership were good. You were always impressed
and felt like that you had to really strut in order
to make an equal impression among them. I always
was amazed at how much a uniform would do, really.
We'd go to conferences where, like the Texas State
Science Fair, and it was just amazing at the
difference in just putting on that A&M uniform.
Did you ever go to the legislature representing
them? Didn't even know we had one. Because see, one
of the things Jack Williams always did would be to
take the student body president, the highest
ranking woman, and the corps commander, and with a
straight face he would say these students have
been at random, just happened to run into them
leaving the campus. No. Like the year that Fred
McClure, you know Fred. Yes, very well. 4-H kid
from up in Henderson. There you go. And so Senator
Aiken of Paris was chairman of the Senate Finance
Committee during this era. In old East Texas.
That's right. So Jack Williams introduced Fred
and he said, And so Mr. Aiken said, Fred, tell these
people where you're from. Oh, I'm from St.
Augustine, where... He said, no, Fred, tell them
where you were born and grew up. Oh, that's right,
sir. I was born in Paris, your hometown. Grew up
there, and then we moved when I was a ninth grader.
In fact, this suit I'm wearing was...